Upgrading from 0.11.0 to 0.12.0
===============================

Upgrade ``composer.json``
-------------------------

In your ``composer.json`` file, upgrade the version of ``netgen/content-browser``
package to ``~0.12.0`` and run the ``composer update`` command.

Breaking changes
----------------

* Minimum required version of PHP is now 7.1

* ``Netgen\Bundle\CoreUIBundle\NetgenCoreUIBundle`` bundle has been removed.
  Remove it from your ``AppKernel`` class.

* Form named ``item_id`` in ``ContentBrowserDynamicType`` has been renamed to
  ``item_value``. Update your code using this type to use the new name.

* ``Netgen\ContentBrowser\Backend\BackendInterface::getDefaultSections`` method
  has been renamed to ``getSections``. Update your custom backends to use the
  new method name.

* ``Netgen\ContentBrowser\Config\ConfigurationInterface`` has been removed.
  Typehint against ``Netgen\ContentBrowser\Config\Configuration`` class directly
  in your custom backends.

* Block prefixes for Symfony forms have been renamed. The following table lists
  the old names and the new names. If you used custom form themes to change the
  look of Content Browser forms, update the Twig block names to use the new
  block prefixes.

  +-----------------------------------------------------+
  | Old block prefix                | New block prefix  |
  +=====================================================+
  | ``ng_content_browser``          | ``ngcb``          |
  +-----------------------------------------------------+
  | ``ng_content_browser_dynamic``  | ``ngcb_dynamic``  |
  +-----------------------------------------------------+
  | ``ng_content_browser_multiple`` | ``ngcb_multiple`` |
  +-----------------------------------------------------+
