Upgrading from 0.13.0 to 1.0.0
==============================

Upgrade ``composer.json``
-------------------------

In your ``composer.json`` file, upgrade the version of ``netgen/content-browser``
package and all other related packages (like ``netgen/content-browser-ui``,
``netgen/content-browser-ezplatform`` and others) to ``~1.0.0`` and run the
``composer update`` command.

Breaking changes
----------------

* Minimum supported version of PHP is now 7.2

* Minimum supported version of Symfony is now 3.4.24 or 4.3

* Interfaces for registries have been removed. Typehint against the concrete
  registry implementations.

* Names of the CSS and JavaScript assets have been changed:

  Before:

  .. code-block:: twig

      {{ asset('netgen-content-browser.css', 'ngcb_css') }}
      {{ asset('netgen-content-browser.js', 'ngcb_js') }}

  After:

  .. code-block:: twig

      {{ asset('main.css', 'ngcb_css') }}
      {{ asset('main.js', 'ngcb_js') }}

* CSS class ``js-config-name`` in HTML markup has been renamed to
  ``js-item-type``. If you have any custom code that calls the content browser
  (e.g. overridden form type templates or code that calls the browser directly),
  update the CSS class name to the new value.

* Virtual services ``netgen_content_browser.current_backend`` and
  ``netgen_content_browser.current_config`` have been renamed to
  ``netgen_content_browser.backend`` and ``netgen_content_browser.config``
  respectively.

eZ Platform specific breaking changes
-------------------------------------

* Minimum supported version of eZ Platform is now 2.5 or 3.0

* All container parameters that had ``ezpublish`` as part of their names have
  been renamed to ``ezplatform`` instead.

* Container parameters that allow specifying the item, preview and thumbnail
  templates have been renamed to remove ``default_`` part of their name.

  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
  | Old name                                                        | New name                                                 |
  +=================================================================+==========================================================+
  | ``netgen_content_browser.ezpublish.default_item_template``      | ``netgen_content_browser.ezplatform.item_template``      |
  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
  | ``netgen_content_browser.ezpublish.default_preview_template``   | ``netgen_content_browser.ezplatform.preview_template``   |
  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
  | ``netgen_content_browser.ezpublish.default_thumbnail_template`` | ``netgen_content_browser.ezplatform.thumbnail_template`` |
  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
  | ``netgen_content_browser.eztags.default_item_template``         | ``netgen_content_browser.eztags.item_template``          |
  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

* All services that had ``EzPublish`` as part of their FQCN have been renamed
  to ``EzPlatform`` instead.

* All services that had ``ezpublish`` as part of their service name have been
  renamed to ``ezplatform`` instead.

* Identifiers of column value providers have been renamed from having the
  ``ezpublish\`` prefix to having the ``ezplatform\`` prefix. This also includes
  the related translations, which have been renamed from ``columns.ezpublish.``
  prefix to ``columns.ezplatform.`` prefix.
